
We are the group behind all of the historical minor league performance and
demographic data on baseball-reference.com.  We are developing an improved
dataset documenting professional and other strong baseball leagues prior 
to 1960.  We follow a source-oriented approach to organising our data, with
the goal that every data value can be traced back to an original published
source.

The historical record is scattered across many sources, and is often incomplete
or internally inconsistent.  We have developed a methodology to capture this
information efficiently, and to draw the most sensible conclusions possible
from the data collected so far.  Our undertaking, and our methods, are
similar to the approach taken by ICI in the years running up to the
production of the original edition of the Macmillan encyclopedia for
the Major Leagues.

Our starting point is, for each league-season, compilations of averages 
published in e.g. the Guides, as well as any similar compilations done 
previously by researchers.   Guide data is notoriously
uneven in quality across leagues and years; nevertheless it provides a useful
point of departure for establishing a substantial if incomplete list of players
participating in a season.  

We add to this game-level data, for which we have developed an efficient text 
format for transcribing boxscores and game accounts.  We organise boxscores
by source, allowing for the possibility to capture and compare multiple
accounts of the same game.  

We establish a player's participation in a game based on at least one mention 
in either an averages compilation or a boxscore.  For each league-season,
we correlate information across published averages, boxscores, and other
sources using tags we refer to as "idents".  All records (believed to)
refer to the same person are tagged with the same ident. 

We further have developed an efficient system for capturing other types
of demographic information on people, which likewise is often scattered in
passing mentions in newspaper articles.  These often provide valuable
clues to a person's career path in baseball.  We use this information to 
help match up idents across league-seasons to map out careers.

A summary dashboard of our work is viewable at 
http://chadwick-bureau.com/data/boxscores/summary/register.html
This register provides a read-across of the source data providing the
underpinning evidence for a person's career.  This document reflects
the current state of our data capture, and our current correlations of
mentions of people in the source records.  It is re-built daily as we
add new source data and revise correlations.

This document does not contain complete careers; it summarises the
source evidence we have to date for a player's career.  Sources are
internally inconsistent - for example, it is not unusual for a pitcher
to be listed with more games pitched than games played.  Likewise,
different sources sometimes provide conflicting data.

All our data is available online:
* Compilations of averages: https://github.com/chadwickbureau/minoraverages
* Compilations of boxscores: https://github.com/chadwickbureau/boxscores
* Ident mappings: https://github.com/chadwickbureau/identlink


